Add EIP 223: Token standard with event handling implementation (#6485)
ethereum/EIPs: EIPS/eip-223.md

---
eip: 223
title: 223 Token with communication model
description: Token with event handling and communication model
author: Dexaran (@Dexaran)
discussions-to: https://ethereum-magicians.org/t/erc-223-token-standard/12894

> status: Review

Reviewer: ```suggestion
status: Draft
```
New EIPs must start in draft. This is a new EIP.

Author: This thing exists since 2017 https://github.com/ethereum/eips/issues/223 but at that time the submission process was different.

Reviewer: Yes. Nonetheless,  this is a new EIP with the current process.

---
eip: 223
title: 223 Token with communication model
description: Token with event handling and communication model
author: Dexaran (@Dexaran)
discussions-to: https://ethereum-magicians.org/t/erc-223-token-standard/12894
status: Review
type: Standards Track
category: ERC
created: 2017-05-03
---

## Abstract

The following describes an interface for fungible tokens that supports a `tokenReceived` callback to notify contract recipients when tokens are received.

## Motivation

This token introduces a communication model for contracts that can be utilized to straighten the behavior of contracts that interact with such tokens. Specifically, this proposal:

1. Informs receiving contracts of tokens, as opposed to [ERC-20](./eip-20.md) where the recipient of a token transfer gets no notification.
2. Is more gas-efficient when depositing tokens to contracts.
3. Allows for `_data` recording for financial transfers.

> ## Specification

Reviewer: I still would prefer this to be an extension of ERC-20 but it's fine if you don't want that.

Author: The main reason why I don't want it is that I'm intentionally overwriting the logic of how `transfer()` functions work.
It is not possible to make it a part of ERC20 standard anyways.

It was described here: https://github.com/ethereum/eips/issues/223

I'm doing it to solve the problem of lost funds i.e. there is no possibility to REJECT incorrectly sent ERC20 tokens due to how its `transfer()` function works and as the result there are millions of dollars lost in ERC20 tokens in ETH and this continues even right now.

Author: At the moment of ERC223 creation the whole process was different.

I would like to finalise it as ERC223 which was originally designed as an "alternative standard". Also it would help to avoid confusion for third parties in my opinion.

Reviewer: This seems to me to be much more of an extension to ERC-20, and as you said, the process was much different (and extensions were not commonly used). I am okay with this EIP being not an extension with the following two conditions:

1. The definitions for balanceOf, name, synbol, decimals, and all other applicable methods state that their functionality is equivalent to that of ERC-20.
2. The backward compatibility section also states the above.

Author: 1. Definitions of all functions except `transfer` now refer to ERC-20 analogues.

2. Backwards compatibility section added https://github.com/Dexaran/EIPs/commit/6093c8f32b4a33acd700757776023602e02e0da3

### Methods

Contracts intending to receive these tokens MUST implement `tokenReceived`.

> Tokens transferred to contracts not implementing `tokenReceived` as described below MUST revert.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Token transfers to contracts not implementing `tokenReceived` as described below MUST revert.
```

> 

Reviewer: I don't see the `tokensReceived` hook here — maybe you misplaced the above?

Author: fixed

Author: `tokenReceived()` is described here https://github.com/Dexaran/EIPs/blob/patch-1/EIPS/eip-223.md#contract-that-is-intended-to-receive-erc-223-tokens

or what is the issue with this statement?

Reviewer: Ah. It would be helpful to bring those two statements together.  Generally,  'below' means 'directly below'.

Author: I have moved the `tokenReceived()` paragraph directly below `transfer()` functions 

https://github.com/Dexaran/EIPs/commit/7b67c2ecfcc110c6589f1c627df65f44f9e76aeb

#### `totalSupply`

```solidity
function totalSupply() view returns (uint256 totalSupply)
```

Get the total token supply

#### `name`

```solidity

> function name() view returns (string _name)

Reviewer: Since we're creating a totally new standard, might it make sense to also require a `uri()` function to get EIP-721-like data? This way, the `name()` and `symbol()` functions can also be removed.

Reviewer: These functions do not appear to be indicated as optional.

Author: fixed

```

Get the name of token

#### `symbol`

```solidity
function symbol() view returns (bytes32 _symbol)
```

Get the symbol of token

#### `decimals`

```solidity
function decimals() view returns (uint8 _decimals)

> ```

Reviewer: Same here — are you missing thr optional text?

Author: fixed

Get decimals of token

#### `standard`

```solidity
function standard() view returns (string _standard)
```

> Get the standard of token contract. For some services it is important to know how to treat this particular token. If token supports [ERC-223](./eip-223.md) standard then it must explicitly tell that it does.

Reviewer: Again, I am blocking this EIP until this is separated out. This is definitely outside the scope of this EIP.

Author: Ok, let's remove it from this EIP

function transfer(address _to, uint _value, bytes calldata _data) returns (bool)
```

function that is always called when someone wants to transfer tokens.
This function must transfer tokens and invoke the function `tokenReceived (address, uint256, bytes)` in `_to`, if _to is a contract. If the `tokenReceived` function is not implemented in `_to` (receiver contract), then the transaction must fail and the transfer of tokens should not occur. 
If `_to` is an externally owned address, then the transaction must be sent without trying to execute `tokenReceived` in `_to`.
 `_data` can be attached to this token transaction and it will stay in blockchain forever (requires more gas). `_data` can be empty.

NOTE: The recommended way to check whether the `_to` is a contract or an address is to assemble the code of `_to`. If there is no code in `_to`, then this is an externally owned address, otherwise it's a contract.

### Events

#### `Transfer`

```solidity
event Transfer(address indexed _from, address indexed _to, uint256 _value)
```

Triggered when tokens are transferred. Compatible with ERC-20 `Transfer` event.

#### `TransferData`

```solidity
event TransferData(bytes _data)

> ```

Reviewer: Why not overload the `Transfer` event?

Author: Explorers and services that work with ERC20 tokens expect ERC20 Transfer event - `event Transfer(address indexed _from, address indexed _to, uint256 _value)`

From interface point of view both ERC20 and ERC223 look the same and they don't even need to dig it to understand what standard a token supports as both work the same.

So the idea is to keep it easier for interfaces

Reviewer: Most libraries (including web3 and ethers) separate events per override. I see no feasible method for this to cause a backward incompatibility.

Author: https://github.com/Dexaran/EIPs/commit/3090cc6c3facc35d65ab67844d35e3c78f5a3aa3

Reviewer: I don't understand.  Mind explaining?

Author: I have replaced `Transfer` and `TransferData` events with just one `Transfer` event with `bytes _data` parameter

- [ERC-20](./eip-20.md) deposit: `approve` ~53K gas, `transferFrom` ~80K gas

- ERC-223 deposit: `transfer` and handling on the receivers side ~46K gas

This standard introduces the ability to correct user errors by allowing to handle ANY transactions on the recipient side and reject incorrect or improper transactions. This tokens utilize ONE transferring method for both types of interactions with tokens and externally owned addresses which can simplify the user experience and allow to avoid possible user mistakes.

One downside of the commonly used [ERC-20](./eip-20.md) standard that ERC-223 is intended to solve is that [ERC-20](./eip-20.md) implements two methods of token transferring: (1) `transfer` function and (2) `approve + transferFrom` pattern. Transfer function of [ERC-20](./eip-20.md) standard does not notify the receiver and therefore if any tokens are sent to a contract with the `transfer` function then the receiver will not recognize this transfer and the tokens can become stuck in the receivers address without any possibility of recovering them.

> ERC-223 standard is intended to simplify the interaction with contracts that are intended to work with tokens. ERC-223 utilizes "deposit" pattern similar to plain Ether depositing patterns - in case of ERC-223 deposit to the contract a user or a UI must simply send the tokens with the `transfer` function. This is one transaction as opposed to two step process of `approve + transferFrom` depositing.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ERC-223 is intended to simplify the interaction with contracts that are intended to work with tokens. ERC-223 utilizes a "deposit" pattern, similar to that of plain Ether. An ERC-223 deposit to a contract is a simple call of the `transfer` function. This is one transaction as opposed to two step process of `approve + transferFrom` depositing.
```

> This standard allows payloads to be attached to transactions using the `bytes calldata _data` parameter, which can encode a second function call in the destination address, similar to how `msg.data` does in an Ether transaction, or allow for public loggin on chain should it be necessary for financial transactions.

Reviewer: Typo in "logging"

Author: fixed

1. Informs receiving contracts of tokens, as opposed to [ERC-20](./eip-20.md) where the recipient of a token transfer gets no notification.
2. Is more gas-efficient when depositing tokens to contracts.
3. Allows for `_data` recording for financial transfers.

## Specification

### Methods

Contracts intending to receive these tokens MUST implement `tokenReceived`.

Tokens transferred to contracts not implementing `tokenReceived` as described below MUST revert.

#### `totalSupply`

```solidity
function totalSupply() view returns (uint256 totalSupply)
```

Get the total token supply

#### `name`

```solidity
function name() view returns (string _name)
```

Get the name of token

#### `symbol`

```solidity
function symbol() view returns (bytes32 _symbol)
```

Get the symbol of token

#### `decimals`

```solidity
function decimals() view returns (uint8 _decimals)
```

Get decimals of token

#### `standard`

```solidity
function standard() view returns (string _standard)
```

Get the standard of token contract. For some services it is important to know how to treat this particular token. If token supports [ERC-223](./eip-223.md) standard then it must explicitly tell that it does.

> This function **MUST** return "ERC-223" for this token standard. If no "standard()" function is implemented in the contract then the contract must be considered to be ERC-20.

Reviewer: Use EIP-165 or some other introspection EIP. If you really want this function, make it its own EIP. But this function is outside the scope of this EIP.

Author: Ok, I can make it into separate EIP. 

However in some cases its necessary to recognize "if the token is ERC-223 or something else" and it could be an easy way. If it returns `erc223` then its ERC-223, otherwise "something else".

Reviewer: That's why I suggested using EIP-165 instead.

---
eip: 223
title: 223 Token with communication model
description: Token with event handling and communication model

> author: Dexaran (@Dexaran) <dexaran@ethereumclassic.org>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
author: Dexaran (@Dexaran)
```

description: Token with event handling and communication model
author: Dexaran (@Dexaran)
discussions-to: https://ethereum-magicians.org/t/erc-223-token-standard/12894
status: Draft
type: Standards Track
category: ERC
created: 2017-05-03
---

## Abstract

The following describes an interface for fungible tokens that supports a `tokenReceived` callback to notify contract recipients when tokens are received.

## Motivation

This token introduces a communication model for contracts that can be utilized to straighten the behavior of contracts that interact with such tokens. Specifically, this proposal:

1. Informs receiving contracts of tokens, as opposed to [ERC-20](./eip-20.md) where the recipient of a token transfer gets no notification.
2. Is more gas-efficient when depositing tokens to contracts.
3. Allows for `_data` recording for financial transfers.

## Specification

### Methods

Contracts intending to receive these tokens MUST implement `tokenReceived`.

Token transfers to contracts not implementing `tokenReceived` as described below MUST revert.

### Token contract

#### `totalSupply`

```solidity
function totalSupply() view returns (uint256 totalSupply)
```

> Get the total supply of the token. The functionality of the method is similar to `totalSupply()` of ERC-20. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Gets the total supply of the token. The functionality of this method is identical to that of ERC-20.
```

#### `name`

```solidity
function name() view returns (string _name)
```

> Get the name of the token. The functionality of the method is similar to `name()` of ERC-20.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Gets the name of the token.  The functionality of this method is identical to that of ERC-20.
```

OPTIONAL - This method can be used to improve usability, but interfaces and other contracts MUST NOT expect these values to be present.

#### `symbol`

```solidity
function symbol() view returns (bytes32 _symbol)
```

> Get the symbol of token. The functionality of the method is similar to `symbol()` of ERC-20.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Gets the symbol of the token. The functionality of this method is identical to that of ERC-20.
```

OPTIONAL - This method can be used to improve usability, but interfaces and other contracts MUST NOT expect these values to be present.

#### `decimals`

```solidity
function decimals() view returns (uint8 _decimals)
```

> Get decimals of token. The functionality of the method is similar to `decimals()` of ERC-20.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Gets the number of decimals of the token. The functionality of this method is identical to that of ERC-20.
```

OPTIONAL - This method can be used to improve usability, but interfaces and other contracts MUST NOT expect these values to be present.

#### `balanceOf`

```solidity
function balanceOf(address _owner) view returns (uint256 balance)
```

> Get the account balance of another account with address `_owner`. The functionality of the method is similar to `balanceOf(address)` of ERC-20.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Gets the account balance of another account with address `_owner`. The functionality of this method is identical to that of ERC-20.
```

#### `transfer(address, uint)`

```solidity
function transfer(address _to, uint _value) returns (bool)
```

> This function must transfer tokens and invoke the function `tokenReceived(address, uint256, bytes calldata)` in `_to`, if `_to` is a contract. If the `tokenReceived` function is not implemented in `_to` (recipient contract), then the transaction must fail and the transfer of tokens must be reverted.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This function must transfer tokens, and if `_to` is a contract, it must call the `tokenReceived(address, uint256, bytes calldata)` function of `_to`. If the `tokenReceived` function is not implemented in `_to` (recipient contract), then the transaction must fail and the transfer of tokens must be reverted.
```

If `_to` is an externally owned address, then the transaction must be sent without executing `tokenReceived` in `_to`.

>  `_data` can be attached to this token transaction and it will stay in blockchain forever (requires more gas). `_data` can be empty.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 `_data` can be attached to this token transaction, but it requires more gas. `_data` can be empty.
```
'Forever' will no longer be true if EIP-4444 is implemented.

Author: You are right.

#### `transfer(address, uint, bytes)`

```solidity
function transfer(address _to, uint _value, bytes calldata _data) returns (bool)
```

This function must transfer tokens and invoke the function `tokenReceived (address, uint256, bytes)` in `_to`, if `_to` is a contract. If the `tokenReceived` function is not implemented in `_to` (recipient contract), then the transaction must fail and the transfer of tokens must not occur. 

> If `_to` is an externally owned address, then the transaction must be sent without executing `tokenReceived` in `_to`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If `_to` is an externally owned address (determined by the code size being zero), then the transaction must be sent without executing `tokenReceived` in `_to`.
```

>  `_data` can be attached to this token transaction and it will stay in blockchain forever (requires more gas). `_data` can be empty.

Reviewer: Same here:
```suggestion
 `_data` can be attached to this token transaction, but it requires more gas. `_data` can be empty.
```

NOTE: A possible way to check whether the `_to` is a contract or an address is to assemble the code of `_to`. If there is no code in `_to`, then this is an externally owned address, otherwise it's a contract.

> ### Contract that is intended to receive [ERC-223](./eip-223.md) tokens

Reviewer: @SamWilsn have we decided to allow self-references?

Also, I feel like we should ignore EIP linking rules for section titles.

Author: In my opinion allowing self-references in EIPs would improve readability. 

Imagine that we will have to compare one token (ERC-A) to three others (ERC-B, ERC-C, ERC-D). 

We need to say that ERC-A is faster than ERC-B, more secure than ERC-C but cuter than ERC-D. At the same time it's cheaper than ERC-B, more expensive than ERC-C and still cuter than ERC-D.

With self-referencing:

"ERC-A is faster than ERC-B, more secure than ERC-C and cuter than ERC-D. ERC-A is cheaper than ERC-B, ERC-A is more expensive than ERC-C. ERC-A is still cuter than ERC-D."

Without self-referencing:

"The proposed token is faster than ERC-B, more secure than ERC-C and cuter than ERC-D. This token is cheaper than ERC-B, this token is more expensive than ERC-C. This token is still cuter than ERC-D."

Comparisons of ERCs/EIPs would be more readable if ALL EIPs (including the one being proposed) would be in the same format.

<disclaimer: English is not my native language so if anything is incorrect thats why)

Reviewer: > "The proposed token is faster than ERC-B, more secure than ERC-C and cuter than ERC-D. This token is cheaper than ERC-B, this token is more expensive than ERC-C. This token is still cuter than ERC-D."

Self-references would be replaced with "this EIP" or "this ERC." Basically, it means that the reader doesn't need to remember what the current EIP's number is while they read the EIP.

> ### Contract that is intended to receive [ERC-223](./eip-223.md) tokens

Reviewer: I highly recommend this be at the bottom, below all the events, and that this be a solidity interface to indicate that this is completely separate from the above.

```solidity
function tokenReceived(address _from, uint _value, bytes calldata _data)
```

A function for handling token transfers, which is called from the token contract, when a token holder sends tokens. `_from` is the address of the sender of the token, `_value` is the amount of incoming tokens, and `_data` is attached data similar to `msg.data` of Ether transactions. It works by analogy with the fallback function of Ether transactions and returns nothing.

NOTE: `msg.sender` will be a token-contract inside the `tokenReceived` function. It may be important to filter which tokens are sent (by token-contract address). The token sender (the person who initiated the token transaction) will be `_from` inside the `tokenReceived` function.

IMPORTANT: This function must be named `tokenReceived` and take parameters `address`, `uint256`, `bytes` to match the function signature `0x8943ec02`.

### Events

#### `Transfer`

```solidity
event Transfer(address indexed _from, address indexed _to, uint256 _value)
```

> Triggered when tokens are transferred. Compatible with ERC-20 `Transfer` event. The functionality of the event is similar to `Transfer` event of ERC-20.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Triggered when tokens are transferred. Compatible with and similar to the ERC-20 `Transfer` event.
```
Make this a little less redundant and fix grammar.

## Rationale

This standard introduces a communication model by enforcing the `transfer` to execute a handler function in the destination address. This is an important security consideration as it is required that the receiver explicitly implements the token handling function. In cases where the receiver does not implements such function the transfer MUST be reverted.

This standard sticks to the push transaction model where the transfer of assets is initiated on the senders side and handled on the receivers side. As the result, ERC-223 transfers are more gas-efficient while dealing with depositing to contracts as ERC-223 tokens can be deposited with just one transaction while ERC-20 tokens require at least two calls (one for `approve` and the second that will invoke `transferFrom`).

- [ERC-20](./eip-20.md) deposit: `approve` ~53K gas, `transferFrom` ~80K gas

> - ERC-223 deposit: `transfer` and handling on the receivers side ~46K gas

Reviewer: How does the deposit + call use less gas than an approve? I feel like this gas usage might be outdated

Author: I have performed this tests https://github.com/Dexaran/Token_Deposits_GAS_testing using REMIX, solidity 0.8.19, optimization 200 runs

Updated the values:

-  approve >> 53K
- deposit with transferFrom >> 75K
- ERC223 deposit via transfer >> 46K

Reviewer: Your transferFrom function is very unoptimized, with 7 total internal contract calls. Your ERC-223 contract has none. This skews the results a lot.

---
eip: 223

> title: 223 Token with communication model

Author: This thing is already well-known in the community as "ERC223 token standard" since 2017. Can we somehow reflect it in the title to make it clear?

> title: 223 Token with communication model

Reviewer: Nope. The title will contain ERC-223 automatically.

description: Token with event handling and communication model
author: Dexaran (@Dexaran)
discussions-to: https://ethereum-magicians.org/t/erc-223-token-standard/12894
status: Review
type: Standards Track
category: ERC
created: 2017-05-03
---

## Abstract

The following describes standard functions a token contract and contract which is intended to work with specified token can implement. This standard introduces a communication model which allows for the implementation of **event handling** on the receiver's side.

## Motivation

1. This token introduces a communication model for contracts that can be utilized to straighten the behavior of contracts that interact with tokens as opposed to [ERC-20](./eip-20.md) where a token transfer could be ignored by the receiving contract.
2. This token is more gas-efficient when depositing tokens to contracts.
3. This token allows for `_data` recording for financial transfers.

## Specification

> 

Reviewer 2: Generally we recommend using the [blurb from the EIP template](https://github.com/ethereum/EIPs/blob/454b40fd2d9b788f0c9d21b58146b0a80b098ab2/eip-template.md?plain=1#L55) referring to RFC 2119 to define "MUST", "SHOULD", etc.

Token

> Contracts that works with tokens

Author: Removing the outdated description as not required by the specification paragraph.

### Methods

> NOTE: An important point is that contract developers must implement `tokenReceived` if they want their contracts to work with the specified tokens.
> 
> If the receiver does not implement the `tokenReceived` function, consider the contract is not designed to work with tokens, then the transaction must fail and no tokens will be transferred. An analogy with an Ether transaction that is failing when trying to send Ether to a contract that did not implement `receive() payable`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Contracts intending to receive these tokens MUST implement `tokenReceived`.

Tokens transferred to contracts not implementing `tokenReceived` as described below MUST revert.
```

> #### totalSupply

Reviewer 2: Since this is a function name:

```suggestion
#### `totalSupply`
```

> ```js
> 
> function totalSupply() constant returns (uint256 totalSupply)
> 
> ```

Reviewer 2: ````suggestion
```solidity
function totalSupply() constant returns (uint256 totalSupply)
```
````

---

On another note, I'm not familiar with the `constant` function modifier. Would that be `pure`/`view` in modern Solidity?

Author: Yes, I'll update the code description to match the current version of Solidity

Here is the actual 0.8.0 code https://github.com/Dexaran/ERC223-token-standard/blob/development/token/ERC223/ERC223.sol

> Get the total token supply

Reviewer 2: Might be a good idea to define what "total token supply" means.

> #### name

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#### `name`
```

> ```js
> 
> function name() constant returns (string _name)
> 
> ```

Reviewer 2: ````suggestion
```js
function name() constant returns (string _name)
```
````

Get the name of token

> #### symbol

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#### `symbol`
```

> ```js
> 
> function symbol() constant returns (bytes32 _symbol)
> 
> ```

Reviewer 2: ````suggestion
```solidity
function symbol() constant returns (bytes32 _symbol)
```
````

> Get the symbol of token

Reviewer 2: Similarly, it might be a good idea to define what a symbol is.

> #### decimals

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#### `decimals`
```

> ```js
> 
> function decimals() constant returns (uint8 _decimals)
> 
> ```

Reviewer 2: ````suggestion
```solidity
function decimals() constant returns (uint8 _decimals)
```
````

> Get decimals of token

Reviewer 2: What's a decimal?

> #### standard

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#### `standard`
```

> ```js
> 
> function standard() constant returns (string _standard)
> 
> ```

Reviewer 2: ````suggestion
```solidity
function standard() constant returns (string _standard)
```
````

Get the standard of token contract. For some services it is important to know how to treat this particular token. If token supports [ERC-223](./eip-223.md) standard then it must explicitly tell that it does.

This function **MUST** return "ERC-223" for this token standard. If no "standard()" function is implemented in the contract then the contract must be considered to be ERC-20.

> #### balanceOf

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#### `balanceOf`
```

> ```js
> 
> function balanceOf(address _owner) constant returns (uint256 balance)
> 
> ```

Reviewer 2: ````suggestion
```solidity
function balanceOf(address _owner) constant returns (uint256 balance)
```
````

> Get the account balance of another account with address _owner

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Get the account balance of another account with address `_owner`
```

> #### transfer(address, uint)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#### `transfer(address, uint)`
```

> ```js
> 
> function transfer(address _to, uint _value) returns (bool)
> 
> ```

Reviewer 2: ````suggestion
```solidity
function transfer(address _to, uint _value) returns (bool)
```
````

> Needed due to backwards compatibility reasons because of ERC-20 transfer function doesn't have `bytes` parameter. This function must transfer tokens and invoke the function `tokenReceived(address, uint256, bytes calldata)` in `_to`, if _to is a contract. If the `tokenReceived` function is not implemented in `_to` (receiver contract), then the transaction must fail and the transfer of tokens should be reverted.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This function must transfer tokens and invoke the function `tokenReceived(address, uint256, bytes calldata)` in `_to`, if `_to` is a contract. If the `tokenReceived` function is not implemented in `_to` (receiver contract), then the transaction must fail and the transfer of tokens should be reverted.
```

---

I'd move:

> Needed due to backwards compatibility reasons because of ERC-20 transfer function doesn't have `bytes` parameter. 

Into the Rationale section.

> #### transfer(address, uint, bytes)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#### `transfer(address, uint, bytes)`
```

> ```js
> 
> function transfer(address _to, uint _value, bytes calldata _data) returns (bool)
> 
> ```

Reviewer 2: ````suggestion
```solidity
function transfer(address _to, uint _value, bytes calldata _data) returns (bool)
```
````

function that is always called when someone wants to transfer tokens.

> This function must transfer tokens and invoke the function `tokenReceived (address, uint256, bytes)` in `_to`, if _to is a contract. If the `tokenReceived` function is not implemented in `_to` (receiver contract), then the transaction must fail and the transfer of tokens should not occur. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This function must transfer tokens and invoke the function `tokenReceived (address, uint256, bytes)` in `_to`, if `_to` is a contract. If the `tokenReceived` function is not implemented in `_to` (receiver contract), then the function call must fail and the transfer of tokens should not occur. 
```

Author: I would say that this was a correct wording because the whole transaction must fail on this error. If there are multiple calls within one transaction then it must fail altogether, not just this function call.

If `_to` is an externally owned address, then the transaction must be sent without trying to execute `tokenReceived` in `_to`.
 `_data` can be attached to this token transaction and it will stay in blockchain forever (requires more gas). `_data` can be empty.

NOTE: The recommended way to check whether the `_to` is a contract or an address is to assemble the code of `_to`. If there is no code in `_to`, then this is an externally owned address, otherwise it's a contract.

### Events

> #### Transfer

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#### `Transfer`
```

> ```js
> 
> event Transfer(address indexed _from, address indexed _to, uint256 _value)
> 
> ```

Reviewer 2: ````suggestion
```solidity
event Transfer(address indexed _from, address indexed _to, uint256 _value)
```
````

Triggered when tokens are transferred. Compatible with ERC-20 `Transfer` event.

> #### TransferData

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#### `TransferData`
```

> ```js
> 
> event TransferData(bytes _data)
> 
> ```

Reviewer 2: ````suggestion
```solidity
event TransferData(bytes _data)
```
````

> Triggered when tokens are transferred and logs transaction metadata. This is implemented as a separate event to keep `Transfer(address, address, uint256)` ERC-20-compatible.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Triggered when tokens are transferred and logs transaction metadata.
```

---

> This is implemented as a separate event to keep `Transfer(address, address, uint256)` ERC-20-compatible.

Should be in rationale

### Contract that is intended to receive ERC-223 tokens

> ```js
> 
> function tokenReceived(address _from, uint _value, bytes calldata _data)
> 
> ```

Reviewer 2: ````suggestion
```solidity
function tokenReceived(address _from, uint _value, bytes calldata _data)
```
````

ERC-223 standard is intended to simplify the interaction with contracts that are intended to work with tokens. ERC-223 utilizes "deposit" pattern similar to plain Ether depositing patterns - in case of ERC-223 deposit to the contract a user or a UI must simply send the tokens with the `transfer` function. This is one transaction as opposed to two step process of `approve + transferFrom` depositing.

This standard allows payloads to be attached to transactions using the `bytes calldata _data` parameter, which can encode a second function call in the destination address, similar to how `msg.data` does in an Ether transaction, or allow for public loggin on chain should it be necessary for financial transactions.

## Security Considerations

> This token utilizes the model similar to plain Ether behavior. Therefore replay issues must be taken into account.

Reviewer: What about the double spend attack described in EIP-20?

Author: It is not relevant for ERC-223 tokens as it only has one transferring pattern - via `transfer` function. approve + transferFrom is redundant for this standard.

### Reference Implementation

```solidity

pragma solidity ^0.8.0;

> // Source: https://github.com/Dexaran/ERC-223

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
No external links

> ### Reference implementation

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Reference Implementation
```

> ```js

Reviewer 2: ````suggestion
```solidity
````

        balances[_to] = balances[_to] + _value;
        if(Address.isContract(_to)) {
            IERC223Recipient(_to).tokenReceived(msg.sender, _value, _data);
        }
        emit Transfer(msg.sender, _to, _value);
        emit TransferData(_data);
        return true;
    }
    
    /**
     * @dev Transfer the specified amount of tokens to the specified address.
     *      This function works the same with the previous one
     *      but doesn't contain `_data` param.
     *      Added due to backwards compatibility reasons.
     *
     * @param _to    Receiver address.
     * @param _value Amount of tokens that will be transferred.
     */
    function transfer(address _to, uint _value) public returns (bool success)
    {
        bytes memory _empty = hex"00000000";
        balances[msg.sender] = balances[msg.sender] - _value;
        balances[_to] = balances[_to] + _value;
        if(Address.isContract(_to)) {
            IERC223Recipient(_to).tokenReceived(msg.sender, _value, _empty);
        }
        emit Transfer(msg.sender, _to, _value);
        emit TransferData(_empty);
        return true;
    }
}

```

> ## Copyright

Reviewer 2: The copyright waiver is not optional:

```suggestion
## Copyright

Copyright and related rights waived via [CC0](../LICENSE.md).
```

Author: Yea, it should be there. No idea where it got lost.
